In this paper, a smart health monitoring IoT and fog-assisted framework are proposed for obtaining and processing the temperature, blood pressure, ECG, and pulse oximeter parameters of the pregnant woman. Moreover, the temperature, humidity, and air quality of the environment are also monitored with the customized sensor node of wrist.
With ATmega 2560 microcontroller as a processing element for the wrist and  ATmega 328P as the processing element for data captured on the feet, the sensing nodes are responsible to capture real-time health data of the pregnant woman for 9 month using sensors such as temperature sensor, blood pressure sensor, heartbeat, pedometer, ECG, Air quality, and humidity as well as gyroscope and accelerometer are attached to the microcontroller. ATmega 328P microcontroller, accelerometer, and nRF module.Accelerometer sensor is employed for measuring amount of pressure falling on foot. The nRF module enables to communicate the sensor data over the wireless communication. The nRF module enables to communicate the sensor data over the wireless communication. Pedometer, gyroscope, and accelerometer embedded to the shoe to capture several steps and time duration of sitting in a stable position. At this place, ATmega 328 is used as a microcontroller to collect data. Moreover, the customized sensor node is powered with external power supply through the power jack.
 A timestamp is assigned to every sensor by a microcontroller when data is collected. The captured data are then sent to the fog node in a secured way by encrypting captured data using quantum hash functions. Moreover, the data authenticity is performed at the fog layer where the user is authenticated by the iris and face recognition system. At the fog node, the following occurs: If the parameter values are found to be normal, then the fog servers directly send data to the cloud server wirelessly using SSL protocol for further health analysis. Also, some recommendations are issued to the patient like the quantity of glass of water or medicine and so forth to better health conditions; if the health parameters are found under the critical situation, then an immediate alert message generates to the doctor’s end and the woman’s recommendation app. This helps a woman to get immediate medical health in the case of severe health conditions. 
 The cloud layer includes the cloud server which is responsible for sending health messages to the user (doctor, patient’s attendants). 
In essence, the captured data is sent to the fog node via Bluetooth where the pre-processing of data is done, and after the interval of every 5 minutes, the data is sent to the cloud storage from where any smart device can access data from a remote location.
