(1)
Title: A Comprehensive Framework for Wearable Module for Prenatal Health Monitoring and Risk Detection
Problem Attempted To Be Solved:Lack of a prenatal health monitoring system which has led to high maternal mortality ratio in Bangladesh.
Method Used:The problem is tackled by  designing a costeffective, non-invasive device that connects with smartphones for consistent monitoring.
- The wearable device is placed in a pouch around the user’s waist, and the sensors that 
need to be placed on the fingers or underarms are connected to the main processing unit using wires.
- The wearable device monitors temperature, oxygen saturation, heart rate, blood 
pressure, and blood glucose.
- Fetal movement and detect unwanted falls is also monitored in this project.
- The designed user interface of the mobile application for maternal health 
monitoring. The system can also store the data in the database, and if the doctor wants to analyze the 
historical data, he/she can do it using the designated portal designed for the doctors.
-The system has a feature that sends SMS when it detects 
any anomaly
- A central processing unit OF  the ESP-32s microcontroller is chosen for it's ability to collect and send data over the cloud through Wi-Fi.
                  TECHNICALITIES
-An NIR 940mm led and a photodetector were used to detect the blood glucose level.
Light absorbed by the high level of glucose in blood is different from light absorbed by the low level of glucose in blood.
Some of the light is absorbed by components like glucose whereas some of the light is scattered due to interactions with cells and tissue structures.
The remaining light either passes through the tissue or is reflected back toward the photodetector.
-Photodetector measures the intensity of light by converting the incoming light into an electrical signal.
However, in order to mitigate the noises, we have enclosed the 
glucose measurement system in a black box so that it cannot 
be affected by the external lights. This method allows 
continuous monitoring without the pain associated with 
traditional techniques which involves poking a needle every 
time we want to measure.
-To measure blood pressure,
We have used an off the shelf blood pressure monitoring device equipped with an EEPROM which stores the reading of the 
measurements. The way the Blood pressure machine and the EEPROM chip communicates is by utilizing the I2C(Inter-Integrated Circuit) protocol. 
When the blood pressure machine and the EEPROM chip communicate via I²C, it means they use a shared two-wire bus to transmit data.
*Blood Pressure Machine as Master: It sends commands to or requests data from the EEPROM.
*EEPROM as Slave: It stores from the master.
-For temperature readings,DS18b20 sensor is used. For monitoring oxygen saturation and heart 
rate,the MAX30100 sensor is used. 
-In order to get the fetal movement, we have used another IMU(Inertial Measurement Unit) named ADXL335 which is an acceleration sensor.
 IMUs are widely used in motion tracking.
- The fall detection algorithm works with the use of acceleration parameters of MPU6050(acceleration sensor). If a sudden change is 
seen in the acceleration, then it is considered as the person has fallen.
- If it is seen that after subtracting the MPU6050’s acceleration value from the ADXL335’s there is still a 
noticeable increase in the acceleration value, then the system flags it as a fetal movement.
                             Results
MSE measures the average squared difference between predicted (or measured) values and actual (true) values. A smaller MSE indicates better accuracy of the system.
1.Temperature measurement system has a Mean Squared Error of only 0.0035.
The reference device that has been used is a commercially available thermometer.
2.The implemented oxygen saturation and heart rate measurement system has a 
Mean Squared Error of only 1.1 and 2.45 respectively.
NB: Normal Blood oxygen level is 95% to 100%.
Normal Heart rate level is 60 and 100 bpm.
The reference device used is a commercially available pulse oximeter. 
3.
The Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE) measures the accuracy of a system's predictions compared to actual values, expressed as a percentage.
-The MAPE for systolic blood pressure is 4.54%.
This means that, on average, the measured systolic blood pressure values differ from the actual values by 4.54%. For example, if the actual systolic blood pressure is 120 mmHg, the error would typically be around 
-The MAPE for diastolic blood pressure is 5.43%.
Similarly, the diastolic readings differ from the actual values by about 5.43% on average. If the actual diastolic blood pressure is 80 mmHg, the error would be 
The data taken is already from a commercially available blood pressure machine.
4. MAPE of only 4.77%, and it can be utilized as an early indicator of any anomaly in the blood glucose trend. 
A commercial blood glucose monitoring device is used.
5.For the fall detection, we have used the MPU6050. When a fall occurs, abrupt change happens in the values of the 
accelerometer in a very short time.
6.To detect the fetal kick, we have used the ADXL335 as the sensor responsible for detection, and it is placed on the 
abdomen of a pregnant woman based on the fetal orientation.
Conclusion:
A vitals sign monitoring with  innovative features like fall detection and fetal movement tracking is designed.



